skip to:contentpackage searchsign in
❤
Pro
Teams
Pricing
Documentation
npm
Search packages
Search
@microsoft/clarity
TypeScript icon, indicating that this package has built-in type declarations
1.0.2 • Public • Published a month ago
@microsoft/clarity
Microsoft Clarity is a comprehensive, free behavioral analytics tool designed to give you in-depth insights into user behavior on your website. With Clarity, you can utilize session replays, heatmaps, insights, and the Clarity Copilot feature, which provides intelligent summaries and actionable insights to help you optimize your site more effectively and drive data-driven decisions.

The Clarity NPM package will help you bring Clarity directly to your website.

Installation
Add this package as a dependency in your project:

npm install @microsoft/clarity
Then import the library in your code:

import Clarity from '@microsoft/clarity';
Initialize Clarity
To activate the Clarity project, Clarity needs to be initialized with the Clarity project ID. To get the Clarity project ID, go to your Clarity project > Settings > Overview.

// Make sure to add your actual project id instead of "yourProjectId".
const projectId = "yourProjectId"

Clarity.init(projectId);
Parameters
projectId: String (Required)
Description: The ID of the project.
Identify API
Custom identifiers are informational data values about site visitors that are sent to Clarity by your client-side code over its Identify API. They include custom-id, custom-session-id, and custom-page-id and can help you customize the features on your site that requires it.

Clarity.identify("custom-id", "custom-session-id", "custom-page-id", "friendly-name"); // only custom-id is required
Parameters
customId: string (Required)
Description: The unique identifier for the customer.
customSessionId: string (Optional)
Description: A custom session identifier.
customPageId: string (Optional)
Description: A custom page identifier.
friendlyName: string (Optional)
Description: A friendly name for the customer.
Note
Clarity securely hashes the customId on the client before being sent to Clarity servers.
For optimal user tracking, the Identify API should be called for each page of the website even if you are not passing a custom-session-id or custom-page-id.
Custom tags API
Clarity offers many predefined ways to filter and analyze website data. However, you might want to track elements specific to your site or user experience. With custom tags, you can apply arbitrary tags to your Clarity session.

Clarity.setTag("key", "value");
Parameters
key: string (Required)
Description: The key for the tag.
value: string | string[] (Required)
Description: The value(s) for the tag.
Custom events API
If you prefer to instrument these user actions manually via Clarity APIs, call the event API with the action you'd like to track. When Clarity collects data for this event, it appears with your other Smart events in the Filters, Dashboard, Settings, and Recordings vertical.

Clarity.event("custom-event");
Parameters
event
eventName: string (Required)
Description: The name of the event.
Cookie consent
If your project is configured to require cookie consent, Clarity uses a unique first-party cookie to track each user with a browser cookie. If cookie consent is required, you must call the consent API to indicate that you have consent from the user to track them using a cookie.

// v2 consent api (recommended)
Clarity.consentV2(); // default value is set to { ad_Storage: 'granted', analytics_Storage: 'granted' }
Clarity.consentV2({ ad_Storage: 'denied', analytics_Storage: 'granted' });

// v1 consent api
Clarity.consent(); // default value is set to true
Clarity.consent(false);
Parameters
v2

consentOptions: { ad_Storage: "granted" | "denied"; analytics_Storage: "granted" | "denied" } (Optional)
ad_Storage: Consent for storing data related to ads.
analytics_Storage: Consent for storing analytics-related data.
v1

consent: boolean (Optional)
Description: Indicates whether consent is given.
Upgrade session API
You can use the upgrade API to prioritize specific types of sessions for recording. This is useful if you have sessions with specific types of events (such as clicks) that you want to look at or interactions with specific parts of your website (such as a shopping cart).

Clarity.upgrade("reason");
Parameters
upgrade
reason: string (Required)
Description: The reason for the upgrade.
Useful links
Clarity documentation
Clarity support: clarityms@micrsoft.com
Clarity Legal Terms
Clarity Privacy Policy
Readme
Keywords
claritybehavior-analytics-toolsheatmapssession-recordingsinsightsanalytics
Package Sidebar
Install
npm i @microsoft/clarity


Homepage
clarity.microsoft.com/

Weekly Downloads
69,388

Version
1.0.2

License
MIT

Unpacked Size
7.62 kB

Total Files
6

Last publish
a month ago

Collaborators
microsoft1es
Try on RunKit
Report malware
Footer
Support
Help
Advisories
Status
Contact npm
Company
About
Blog
Press
Terms & Policies
Policies
Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
Privacy
